In this demo, I will activate
Mutual TLS on our Kubernetes Cluster.
These are all the proxies I am going to run.
Namespace 1 and Namespace 2 will be ESTL enabled
and the legacy namespace will not be ESTL enabled.
So, lets get started.
I am in my ESTL directory.
And the first hello world that I have created
is the helloworld-tls.yaml,
and this is going to be the ESTL enabled deployments.
So, I'm going to create two namespaces,
namespace NS1 and namespace NS2.
I will have deployments.
I will have a hello deployment
that shows you the text 'hello'
and it will then go to world Namespace 2
to get the world.
All the other deployments are very similar.
You can have a look at it yourself,
but they match exactly the diagram I just showed you.
We also have the services,
the services for the hello and world,
and for the world and the end-reverse.
So if I go back to the diagram,
I'm gonna talk about the first row,
it's a hello-world.
I'm gonna talk about the second row,
I'll be talking about the reverse.
So we have a hello-reverse,
world-reverse and end-reverse
for the three exclamation marks.
So these are the services for
the world-reverse and end-reverse.
And here we have then the services
for the hello and then the world.
So those are four services for the four deployments
in Namespace one and two.
And then I have the other two in a separate file.
I'm going to create a gateway
so we need to helloworld-gateway,
this is the same as the previous one.
Then we have two destination rules,
one for hello NS1
service cluster local
and one for hello-reverse legacy
service cluster local.
So this is the hello-reverse
for the legacy cluster.
I currently have mutual TLS disabled,
I'll enable this later.
We are basically going to define a V1 TLS subset
that we then going to use in the virtual service.
So we're going to have again,
two virtual services,
one for the hello TLS
and one for the hello TLS reverse.
And these will go to the correct destinations.
So this one will go to the hello host,
and this to the hello reverse.
So this one is in NS1
and this one is in the legacy one.
So the hello in this case
is ESTL enabled
and the hello reverse is not ESTL enabled,
but will contact ESTL enabled hosts
in the other two namespaces.
Now we're gonna have hello-world TLS legacy
and here I define the legacy deployments.
So this is the end TLS
and the hello-reverse TLS,
those are the two deployments
in the legacy namespace here on the right.
And both of them, again, have a service.
So let me apply those.
You can find these commands in the ReadMe,
kubectl apply,
and then we go to use Istio ESTL
under a kube-inject of the helloworld tls.yaml
You'll do the same for helloworld TLS legacy,
but we're not going to use Istio ESTL
because this is a legacy application,
it is not using Istio.
I also removed all the other pods,
so I don't have any other demos running anymore.
Just for simplicity,
otherwise they might conflict with each other.
So you might want to use kubectl delete
to remove any older demos.
Once this is created,
you should be able to contact our service.
Use kubectl get svc -o wide
namespace Istio system.
This will give us the load balancer.
And I'm going to use curl
to access our load balancer,
and the host name I'm going to use is hello TLS example.
So this gives hello world three exclamation marks,
so the hello comes from namespace one,
the world from namespace two
and the three exclamation marks from the legacy namespace.
So these two services are ESTL enabled and this one not.
Then we also have the hello TLS reverse example,
and this is the reverse example.
Hello comes from the legacy,
world from namespace two,
and the three exclamation marks from namespace one.
Let's now enable mutual TLS.
Hello world TLS enable.
I'm going to enable authentication,
kind MeshPolicy,
I'm going to enable MTLS.
When I enable MTLS, I also need
to create a destination rule
with the name enable MTLS,
namespace: default,
even though we specify a namespace,
this rule applies to all namespaces.
This destination rule is going to apply to all namespaces.
If the host is *.local
then it's going to activate mutual TLS.
So, this is a policy,
it enforces that communication is using mutual TLS.
So, if something is not using mutual TLS,
then it will not work.
This destination rule ensures
that the mutual TLS configuration is pushed to the sidecars.
So we need both.
The kube API server is not using Istio,
it's not using mutual TLS,
so here we say that we disable TLS.
We're also going to create a destination rule
for our legacy app.
So we're going to say, if the host
is end legacy svc cluster.local,
which is our three exclamation marks,
then we're also going to disable TLS.
So from within an Istio cluster,
we can still access non usable TLS services,
but it will not be possible the other way around.
And I will show you that in a minute.
So, let's
(keyboard typing)
kubectl,
apply this hello world TLS enable.yaml
So now we enabled the policy,
we also said that if we are contacting start up local,
then it should have mutual TLS enabled.
What I didn't do yet,
is I didn't enable mutual TLS
right here in our destination rules,
that are responsible to respond to the Ingress controller.
So this is our Ingress configuration.
So if you don't specify traffic policy Istio mutual here,
then the communication between the services
will still work, but not if you come from the Ingress.
So to show you that,
I will first go to
our Ingress controller.
So this is the curl,
and we get an upstream connect error.
So we were not able to reach our hello service
and if I use hello TLS reverse,
then we were able to reach our first one,
but not the next one.
So it couldn't connect to world reverse NS2,
because we haven't enabled TLS yet
on those destination rules,
so let's try that now.
So I'm going to edit this file,
hello world tls.yaml
(typing on keyboard)
I'm going to uncomment this
(keyboard typing)
and what's gonna happen now is that
this will work, because
this is Istio enabled,
but unfortunately, this destination rule
if you go into enable Istio mutual
on our legacy namespace,
that has ports that are not deployed with sidecars,
this will not work.
Because obviously those don't support mutual TLS
because they don't deploy with Istio.
So, that's one of the downsides if you enable mutual TLS
and you still have legacy deployments,
that will not work anymore.
Unless you disable TLS, of course.
So, let's do
an apply again,
and this will then have this new destination rule.
And then we should be able to
use curl on our hello TLS again.
And now we have hello world again.
But now, if you do
hello TLS reverse, then we cannot connect to it,
because if you enable mutual TLS
on all our endpoints,
then the legacy namespace will not work.
Although, that the other way works
because we have hello world
then this comes from legacy port.
So, if you enable TLS everywhere,
and we include an exception
on one service that is running the legacy,
that will work.
So let's remove
(keyboard typing)
this mutual TLS
so we can contact this again.
So we have hello TLS, this works,
didn't change anything,
and reverse,
we can now contact our hello on our legacy namespace.
But yet, once we are in our legacy namespace,
we can still not contact anything that is
in a namespace where we have mutual TLS enabled.
So this is the first port,
the hello port,
in our legacy namespace replying that it couldn't
connect to world reverse NS2 on 8080.
So whereas you can say that we don't want TLS
for this one service,
if it still communicates with mutual TLS enabled services,
it will not work.
Whereas communication outside still works
with our hello TLS example.com
So this is how you enable mutual TLS,
we now have mutual TLS enabled
on our namespace one
and namespace two ports,
not in our legacy ports.
We can still communicate from namespace one
to namespace two
and from namespace two to legacy,
but we cannot communicate from legacy
into our namespace one and two.
And this makes sense,
because we cannot identify this hello app
because it's not using Istio,
this doesn't have a certificate, so we cannot trust it,
and we're not letting it into our secured service mesh.
So, this is a lot of information
so I suggest that you try this out yourself
to see how this exactly works.